Add a post calling for blog posts to feed into the 2019 Roadmap RFC (#120)
ember-learn/ember-blog: source/2019-05-20-ember-2019-roadmap-call-for-posts.md

---
title: "Ember's 2019 Roadmap: Call for Blog Posts"
author: Katie Gengler
tags: Recent Posts, Roadmap, 2019
responsive: true
---

> Ember in 2018 (and 2019) has been more exciting than ever! We've been working diligently to advance the project based on our [2018 Roadmap](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/blob/master/text/0364-roadmap-2018.md), but while we work on that, it is time to think about the future. 

Reviewer: Ember in 2018 (and 2019) has been more exciting than ever! We've been working diligently to advance the project based on our [2018 Roadmap](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/blob/master/text/0364-roadmap-2018.md), but while we work to finish that, it is time to think about the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's time to think about the future of Ember, and we need your ideas.

In all of Ember's history, 2018 and 2019 were more exciting than ever, and we want to know where you think that momentum could take us. The core teams and community have been working diligently to advance the project based on our [2018 Roadmap](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/blob/master/text/0364-roadmap-2018.md), but what should the next step be?
```

The Ember team would like you to write a blog post to propose goals and direction for Ember for the next year. The content of these posts will help us to draft our next Roadmap RFC.

# What's a Roadmap RFC?

The Roadmap will outline the community's priorities for the next year. It will be presented as an RFC and follow [the normal RFC process](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs). The RFC will be written based on community input--the blog posts we've requested and other community discussion--and curation from the core teams.

This is will be our second annual Roadmap RFC. To see the results of the process, see [the 2018 Roadmap RFC](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/blob/master/text/0364-roadmap-2018.md). 

> The 2018 Roadmap led to the ["Octane Edition" of Ember, currently in preview](https://emberjs.com/editions/octane/). Octane [includes many features](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/issues/17234), most of which have already landed in a stable release. As the edition nears completion, we want the community to think beyond Octane to the next steps for Ember. The resulting Roadmap for 2019 will not necessarily include an edition but will outline what we will be working toward. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The 2018 Roadmap led to the ["Octane Edition" of Ember, currently in a public preview period](https://emberjs.com/editions/octane/). Octane [includes many features](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/issues/17234), most of which have already landed in stable releases. As the edition nears completion, we ask the community to think beyond Octane to the next steps for Ember. The resulting Roadmap for 2019 will not necessarily include an edition but will outline what we will be working toward. 
```

**The Roadmap process is part of our on-going effort to have shared, clear, and published project-wide goals.**

# #EmberJS2019

To contribute a post: Tweet a link to the post with the hashtag #EmberJS2019 or email a link to roadmap@emberjs.com. These posts will be collected and categorized, and each one will be read by those working to draft the Roadmap RFC.

> ### _Format_

Reviewer: this should be an H2 if the one before it is an H1

Author: /shrug I used same as last year

Reviewer: I'm sorry I didn't catch it then- it's not good for accessibility.

Your post can be on any online writing platform, but we suggest:

* A post on your personal or company blog
* A [GitHub gist](https://gist.github.com/)

> ### _Topic ideas_

Reviewer: Same as above

To kickoff the process, we've collected some early posts:

* [Melanie Sumner](http://www.melsumner.com/blog/ember/the-road-goes-data-way)
* [Yehuda Katz](https://yehudakatz.com/2019/05/20/ember-2019)
* [Preston Sego](https://nullvoxpopuli.com/2019-05-14-ember-2019-roadmap)

### Preliminary Timeline

Dates may change, but this is a general overview of the upcoming process:

**May 20**: call for posts!

**Throughout May and early June**: read posts, draft Roadmap RFC

**June 17**: cutoff for posts--you can still write them (please do!), but we cannot guarantee they'll be read before the Roadmap creation

**Late June**: Post the Roadmap RFC on GitHub

**Mid July**: assuming we've reached consensus, and following the normal RFC process, accept final Roadmap

This is our second call for blog posts. For inspiration, or to better understand the process, you may want to look at the 2018 blog posts, [as collected by community member Lennex Zinyando](https://github.com/zinyando/emberjs2018-posts) or directly on [twitter](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23emberjs2018), and the [2018 Roadmap RFC](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/blob/master/text/0364-roadmap-2018.md).

# Thanks

> Many thanks also to the Rust Core team and the Rust community, from whom we are still learning and adapting process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thank you to everyone who participates this year, whether by writing, reading, or sharing! Many thanks also to the Rust Core team and the Rust community, from whom we are still learning and adapting processes.
```
